It feels as we're coming out of the year
that there's big concerns that maybe the
AI boom is going to turn into an AI
bubble.
>> I think that financially uh we are
cooked. But
>> [laughter]
>> uh
>> buckle up. Here we are at the end of the
first calendar year of bold names. Uh
we're going to do something a little
different today. Instead of talking to
one of those big bold names, one of
those big juicy names you're so
accustomed to hearing from from us at
least, we're going to talk to each
other. We're going to talk about bold
ideas, what we thought was big in 2025
and what we think is going to be big in
2026. Yeah, we've got uh some great
clips for you. We're going to discuss
them from the year that was. We're also
going to make some predictions for 2026
and then we're going to answer some
reader questions. That's right. But
first, let's take a look at the year and
review.
[music]
Okay. As we look back at 2025, there was
one topic that really dominated the
headlines, and that is, of course,
artificial intelligence, AI. It was
inescapable in all of my years covering
tech for the Wall Street Journal and
other publications. I've never seen
anything as all-consuming as AI was in
2025. Yeah, I think uh so many of these
conversations have really centered
around the existential question of what
this technology means uh means for
business but also our daily lives. Uh
how is AI going to change the way we do
things?
>> Yeah, it really consumed the newsroom.
Everything from jobs as you mentioned to
of course the financial aspects of it,
how we fund this to how it's changing
the nature of work,
>> right? and also had a great uh element
of inter company fighting or a race to
become a new winner. If you look back at
the past generation of tech companies,
we've got some dominant players out
there, Apple, Google, Amazon, Meta, it's
really hard to see how you could uh
overcome these companies. If you're a
startup, but this AI technology holds
the promise that maybe some new players
can emerge and maybe even become bigger
uh than what we're accustomed to. I
think the central question became uh how
much are these new startups going to
disrupt the old big tech companies and
by far one of the most fascinating
interviews we had uh of 2025 addressing
this and other topics was with Mustafa
Sullean who is of course head of AI at
Microsoft.
>> The reason I started off in technology
and what I'm passionate about is solving
hard social problems. I care about
healthcare. I care about energy. I care
about food systems. I care about
education and these tools are going to
transform those industries and genuinely
deliver a world of abundance.
>> You know, he comes from a place of being
part of an upstart. He was a co-founder
of DeepMind. And of course, now he's in
charge of bringing that lightning in a
bottle to Microsoft and making sure that
they don't fall behind.
>> The goal isn't super intelligence for
its own sake. You know, super
intelligence is framed as,
you know, the moment when an AI is as
good as all humans at all tasks. Not not
just like one human at one task, but
like all of us collectively put
together. controlling and containing
something as powerful as that, you know,
just seems like unfathomably complex and
aligning it to our interests and making
it really want to care about us enough
not to step on us and, you know, squish
us. And then this idea that it would
recursively self-improve. It would it
would then deploy its own intelligence
on its own code to try and, you know,
get better and better. We also talked
about how the future is going to be
personalized AI. Think of it as every
single one of us having a customized
assistant tailored to our individual
needs.
>> Your AI companion is going to become an
interface between you and the digital
world, helping you book things, buy
things, plan, learn, act, connect with
everybody else. And naturally, because
technologies are so powerful now, they
allow this very personalized adaptive
experience. I mean, just as we don't
really watch TV anymore that broadcasts
the same TV channels to everyone sitting
in the living room, we have this
personalized feed of content uh in Tik
Tok or Instagram or elsewhere. Your AI
is going to feel very personalized as
well. And so it's as much a prediction
about where technology is naturally
likely to head as it is a design intent.
>> I love the vision here. And you know,
personally, I would love to have help
with everything you just mentioned,
right? Like my everyday life, I'd love
for uh an AI assistant to really know me
in to that level. But if we eliminate
all the things that we sort of are
already responsible for, what does that
leave for us as humans, right? Does it
just leave the really hard stuff because
we've taken away all of the um you know
as programmers call it yak shaving but
of course
>> some of us secretly enjoy that.
>> I have to know what that is. What is yak
shaving? [laughter]
>> Um it's it's the it's the little stuff
like when a developer is like I'm going
to refactor this unit test instead of
actually like architecting the program
I'm supposed to be building right now.
That's the actual
>> the boring the boring mundane chores of
life, right? are are working.
>> I see. I see.
>> Look, I don't I don't really see
technology working like that. I think
technology mostly creates more
opportunities to do more things in
greater variety. And yes, some of those
things fall away, but actually very few
of them. I mean, we still run
calculations on Excel even though we
don't use a calculator anymore. I'm sure
you guys are writing even more now that
you know you have your iPad to work on
the plane or you know you're able to
dictate you know when you're walking or
driving in the car like it's additive
rather than reductive. Another big topic
in 2025 was uh tariffs in the trade war.
Generated a lot of headlines, a lot of
worry, a lot of uh guessing about where
the world was going as President Trump
increased tariffs on other countries and
other countries uh retaliated. Yeah. I
mean this touched every story uh that we
did this year I feel like because every
company has inputs that were potentially
being taxed and then they were of course
trying to ship finished goods overseas
in many cases and that was not going
great when it was unclear what the taxes
they were going to pay on that were
going to be.
>> Yeah, it's really challenging, right? If
you think about it, like all the all of
the parts that go into something, they
come from someplace. And just tracking
out all that can be very confusing.
That's why one of the interviews that
really stuck with me that we did was
with Evan Smith. He's the co-founder and
CEO of Altana, one of the few companies
out there that has visibility into all
of that murkiness, tracking uh the
world's supply chain. And Altana is a
unique company. They have access to
what's essentially private data and they
use AI to then share sort of a
distillation of that data with all of
their customers and it shows what's
happening to goods, you know, starting
at raw materials all the way through
finished products and how all of those
are being affected by tariffs.
>> I had one board member of a, you know,
Fortune50 company tell me that this is
economic Pearl Harbor and the world will
never be the same. And later in that
same conversation, Evan explained what
he thinks will drive the next big
rupture in global trade.
>> We're seeing in the rise of AI the other
very big, you know, once in generations
dislocation could be the biggest one of
all, right? The commanding heights of
the 21st century is artificial
intelligence. It's robotics and then
it's the supply chains that support
those and enable it. And if you know
we're not playing to win on that
space, we're destined to lose. And I'll
say that China is certainly playing to
win.
>> China was really one of the through
lines on a lot of these stories this
year. Its rising power, its place on the
global stage, concerns about competition
with this real new giant. China was a
big topic of conversation when we
interviewed former US Secretary of State
Condisa Rice. We talked with her about
why the US cannot ignore advances in
Chinese technology.
>> I'll just give you a very vivid view.
When Deep Seek came out,
>> deep Chinese AI model,
>> the Chinese AI uh AI model, there was
not a single national security person
who wasn't stunned by that. There was
not a single computer scientist who
didn't see it coming. It's not hard to
think about this new tension as
something of a second cold war between
the US and China. Uh but Secretary Rice
took issue with that.
>> One of the difficulties in dealing with
China is that after 20 plus years of
integration, uh you're finding that it's
actually pretty hard to do something
about rare earth minerals because they
own the supply chain and they can
withhold very important magnets. So the
Soviet Union would never have been able
to do that. So I don't like the analogy
because I think we like the analogy
because we won the Cold War. But I don't
like it because I think it it really
does obiscate this very real difference
in what the the challenge from China
looks like. There is a military element,
but there's a huge economic and
technological element as well.
>> And finally, we talked about what might
be the next technological frontier,
quantum computing. And one of the
companies making a huge bet on that,
IBM.
>> Yeah, we spoke with the CEO of IBM,
Arvin Krishna, about uh IBM's decadesl
long efforts to actually be in the lead
on quantum computing, why he thinks it
might be the next big thing after AI. I
think the reason we are so excited about
quantum is its ability to solve problems
that normal computers cannot and
actually I'll make a stronger statement
will not solve. As an example, could we
design a molecule that's better for
carbon sequestration? Could we come up
with a way to fix nitrogen so that we
can increase food production and quality
in the world? Because that's
fertilizers. uh to make it simple, could
we come up with a quoting to reduce
corrosion in underwater pipes so oil and
gas don't ever leak into the ocean?
Those are the kinds of problems that I'm
super excited about.
Okay, mess, we focused a lot on 2025.
What are going to be those big bold
ideas for 2026? Yeah, I mean clearly uh
we're still going to be talking about AI
a lot in 2026.
>> Yeah, it feels as we're coming out of
the year that there's big concerns that
maybe the AI boom is going to turn into
an AI bubble. What do you think?
>> I think that financially uh we are
cooked. But uh [laughter]
>> buckle up.
[sighs and gasps]
I I mean, have you seen these junk
bonds, Tim?
>> Well, there's concerns about the I think
what you're getting at is there's
concerns about some of these
interconnected deals among some of the
big tech players. Worries about what
happens if those predictions for sales
don't occur. So much of the stock
valuation is based upon the potential,
right? Is it over is it overhyped? Yeah,
I mean I think 2026 is going to be one
for the history books in ways both good
and bad. And uh I can safely say that as
a tech journalist, I've never had to
learn so much about finance so quickly
because the structure of a lot of the
deals funding a lot of the data centers,
the stuff that actually comprises AI, um
they're very complicated and it feels
like if the money spigot gets turned off
because investors lose faith or because
uh you know no more debt can be issued
to build these new AI data centers, It's
going to mean trouble for the whole
industry. It's going to have big
implications also for us as consumers
because the subsidy of all of these AI
goodies that we are getting um at a loss
from companies like OpenAI could end.
>> Yeah. Now the flip side of that is there
are people in the industry who feel like
maybe we're not spending enough given
the changes that could be coming because
of this technology that entire
industries could be essentially
rewritten. the way of life uh could be
uh made new that more money should be
invested because the the potential
windfalls are so great and that's kind
of the fun part or the challenge and
exciting part of going into 2026 for
this storyline. Yeah, to be clear I
think AI is going to be as big as the
steam engine. I just think that uh you
know as with the railroads as with the
internet often there are financial
manias that go handinhand with these uh
profound new technological developments
and you know 2026 is going to tell us a
lot about whether we're in one of those.
>> It becomes a timing issue right getting
the timing right is what's complicated.
Is it going to happen when people think
it's going to happen? Is it going to
happen the way they think it's going to
happen in that timeline? Another topic
we touched on last year was humanoid
robots. Now, this is something I think
you and I are both expecting to hear a
lot more about in the year to come.
>> Yeah, absolutely. Uh Elon Musk has a lot
of incentives,
almost $1 trillion of incentives to make
sure that he turns the world full of
humanoid robots as part of
>> right the pay package he gets if he
delivers enough of these.
>> Yeah, absolutely. and he's looking at
2026 as uh time to start producing these
things in mass scale. Uh that's uh going
to be an interesting challenge. I mean,
do you think that we're going to really
get there or do you think humanoid
robots are going to enter the trough of
disillusionment on the famous Gartner
hype cycle in 2026?
>> Well, you know, it's interesting. We're
kind of hitting this moment where
there's a lot of excitement about it
because of what we've talked about
earlier in the show and that's AI uh the
ability for finally uh there to be kind
of the robot brain to help it navigate
the world, do the things in the world
that it would need to do to make it
useful, right? Meeting up with the the
manufacturing end of making the robots.
Uh the challenges are immense though.
You and I have talked to several people
who have warned um that we're not quite
there yet.
>> Yeah, it seems like maybe we're not
going to get humanoid robots uh doing
our dishes in the next 12 months, but 10
years from now, who knows? I mean, they
could be uh raising our kids or at least
walking our dogs. [laughter]
I think one of the other things going on
here, just to tie it back to that
earlier conversation we had about China,
China is is this kind of thing that's
hanging out there over the robot world,
over all of these technological worlds.
There's this concern in the US that
China is going to outpace us, out out
develop us in in these worlds. It's an
economic issue, but for some it's a
national security issue.
>> Yeah. I wonder whether in 2026
there's going to be some kind of Sputnik
moment with China where China
demonstrates uh some new technology in
you know AI or weapons or space
exploration
where you know places like the Wall
Street Journal and others are trumpeting
headlines about how we've fallen behind
yet again.
Next, let's hear from you. We asked you
all for questions and here are some of
the highlights. Uh, first one here is
from Michelle.
Quote, why when we know LLM technology
is based on plausibility, probability,
and not accuracy are so many industries
that depend on precision, finance,
medicine, law keep h hurtling toward it?
It seems kind of dumb. Yeah, this is a
great question because this is the main
barrier to AI adoption in so-called AI
agents, right? Which is just an AI that
we give some power to do something. And
the short answer to this question is
that there are ways to combine uh these
AI systems with a lot of traditional
software, right? Developers call it
scaffolding. Um and you just give these
AIs guard rails. you shrink the tasks
that you're asking them to do. You make
them as small and as definable as
possible. And then when you have to, you
make sure that there's a human in the
loop. And so the answer to this question
is that the future of AI, it's going to
be less like these machine gods that we
were promised and more like Steve Jobs
original vision for the PC, right? It's
a bicycle for the mind. And what he
meant was this is something that
enhances humans in their day-to-day
work. It advantages experts in what they
do because they're the ones who know
what the output should look like and how
to correct the system when it goes
astray.
>> Okay, you asked the next one, I think.
>> Oh, right, [laughter]
>> Tim. So, we got another question uh from
a reader named Tim. No relation. It's
>> all Tims are related, I think.
>> I'm not going to read the whole thing.
Basically, he's like, "What's up with
pennies? What do I do with the pennies
in my life?" Um, what are you going to
do with the pennies in your life now
that we've stamped the last one, Tim?
>> Well, I guess I'm going to collect them.
Uh, sit on them.
>> Uh, fun fact, if you just melt them
down, uh, copper has just been listed as
a critical mineral. So, I think that
might be an option for you if you want
to
>> find a second life for those pennies.
Okay, Mims, thanks for putting up with
me for another year. I am really excited
to put up with you for another year,
Tim, and also to bring to our listeners
a bunch more bold names. I've seen our
editorial calendar for 2026, and there
are a lot of exciting interviews coming.
>> [music]